List of potential sources and their title and abstracts:

#1: Should China Appreciate the Yuan (2004)
http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=527902
(economy)

A little logic and a little evidence does not warrant the conclusion 
that the yuan should be appreciated. There has been no depreciation of 
the yuan in recent years to generate increases in China's exports and 
the total of China's and Hong Kong's exports to the U.S. has remained 
virtually constant. Nor does the U.S./China bilateral trade deficit, 
itself, reveal an undervalued yuan. China's exports to the U.S. are due 
to U.S. economic growth and, until recently, the effects of the 
euro/dollar rate in directing exports to the U.S. It is possible that 
China's exchange rate is below its optimal value as its foreign exchange 
reserves are quite large. Yet it would be understandable if the Chinese 
authorities were concerned about the potential volatilities of a 
floating exchange and of international capital markets and want to 
self-insure by maintaining large reserves.
Measuring misalignment: Latest estimates for the chinese yuan
http://www.ssc.wisc.edu/~mchinn/CCF_VoxEU_final.pdf


#2: Measuring Misalignment: Latest Estimates for the Chinese Yuan (2010)
http://www.ssc.wisc.edu/~mchinn/CCF_VoxEU_final.pdf
(economy)

Few phrases in open economy macroeconomics excite so much attention, but elicit so little
understanding, as “currency misalignment”. The reason for this state of affairs is not very
difficult to understand: each different observer uses the phrase in a different way, incorporating
different models and different assumptions. No episode in recent history validates this thesis
better than the past decade’s debate over the Chinese yuan’s appropriate valuation.
In this chapter, we re-orient the discussion of currency misalignment back toward theory
and empirics; in particular, we set forth a typology of modeling approaches used to assess
misalignment, in order to highlight the difficulties in defining the “equilibrium (real) exchange
rate” in theory, and in quantifying the extent of deviations from equilibrium in practice. We then
recap recent estimates of yuan misalignment.


#3: The US-Sino Currency Dispute: New Insights from Economics, Politics, 
and Law
http://www.voxeu.org/epubs/cepr-reports/us-sino-currency-dispute-new-insights-economics-politics-and-law
(economy)

Thanks to deft diplomatic footwork, a US-China confrontation over the 
renminbi has been avoided. But the US Treasury has merely postponed the 
publication of its report on foreign currency manipulators, and the 
dispute may overshadow the G20 meetings in June and November. The 28 
short essays in this eBook provide the best available economic, legal, 
political, and geopolitical thinking on the causes and likely 
consequences of the dispute.


#4: Chinese Yuan after Chinese Exchange Rate System Reform (2006)
http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1749-124X.2006.00044.x/abstract
(economy)

In this paper, the actual exchange rate policy conducted by the Chinese 
government after the Chinese exchange rate system reform on 21 July 2005 
is investigated. Also, the long-run effect is investigated, including 
the Balassa-Samuelson effect on the Chinese yuan. It was found that the 
Chinese government generated a statistically significant but small 
change in exchange rate policy during the sample period until 25 January 
2006. It was not identified that the Chinese monetary authority is 
adopting the currency basket system because the change is too small in 
the economic sense. It is indicated that the Chinese government should 
take account of the productivity growth of countries composing the 
currency basket in order to operate a currency basket regime.


#5: http://cesifo.oxfordjournals.org/content/52/2/246.short
On the Yuan: The Choice between Adjustment under a Fixed Exchange Rate 
and Adjustment under a Flexible Rate
(economy)

Fixed and flexible exchange rates each have advantages, and a country 
has the right to choose the regime suited to its circumstances. 
Nevertheless, several arguments support the view that the de facto 
dollar peg may now have outlived its usefulness for China. (i) Although 
foreign exchange reserves are a useful shield against currency crises, 
by now China's current level is fully adequate, and US treasury 
securities do not pay a high return. (ii) It may become increasingly 
difficult to sterilize the inflow over time. (iii) Although external 
balance could be achieved by expenditure reduction, e.g. by raising 
interest rates, the existence of two policy goals (external balance and 
internal balance) in general requires the use of two independent policy 
instruments (e.g. the real exchange rate and the interest rate). (iv) A 
large economy like China can achieve adjustment in the real exchange 
rate via flexibility in the nominal exchange rate more easily than via 
price flexibility. (v) The experience of other emerging markets points 
toward exiting from a peg when times are good and the currency is 
strong, rather than waiting until times are bad and the currency is 
under attack. (vi) From a longer-run perspective, prices of goods and 
services in China are low—not just low relative to the US (0.23), but 
also low by the standards of a Balassa–Samuelson relationship estimated 
across countries (which predicts 0.36). In this specific sense, the yuan 
was undervalued by ∼35 percent in 2000, and is by at least as much as 
that today. The study finds that, typically across countries, such gaps 
are corrected halfway, on average, over the subsequent decade. These six 
arguments for increased exchange rate flexibility need not imply a free 
float. China is a good counter-example to the popular “corners 
hypothesis” prohibition on intermediate exchange rate regimes. However, 
the specific changes announced by the Chinese authorities in July 2005 
have not yet resulted in a de facto abandonment of the dollar peg (JEL 
classification: F41).

#6: Measuring Renminbi Misalignment: Where do We Stand?
http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1690463
(economy)

The value of China’s currency, the renminbi (RMB), and the conduct of 
China’s exchange rate policy have generated intense debate in academic 
and international policy circles. Despite the accumulation of empirical 
evidence regarding the degree of RMB misalignment over the past few 
years, the debate continues unabated. In this study, we highlight the 
challenges to properly assessing the nature and degree of currency 
misalignment, in terms of the choice of the model, the method of 
calculation, and data uncertainty. In particular, we demonstrate the 
susceptibility of misalignment estimates to model selection and data 
revisions. Further, we explicitly discuss the implications of sampling 
uncertainty for determining the extent of RMB misalignment.

#7: Real equilibrium exchange rate in China is the renminbi undervalued?  
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1049007807000516
(economy)
(very cited)

We give some insights about the possible undervaluation of the Chinese 
currency. On the one hand, we address the issue of the “Balassa effect”, 
by comparing China with other emerging countries. We try to measure the 
gap between the evolution of the real exchange rate in China and what 
would have resulted from a “normal” Balassa effect. For doing this, we 
use two methods regression on real exchange rate (RER) in level and 
panel cointegration on RER evolutions. We evidence a lack of Balassa 
effect in China, consistent with the fact that the real exchange rate 
did not appreciate despite the rapid catching-up. On the other hand, we 
use a FEER (Fundamental Equilibrium Exchange Rate) method to calculate 
the real effective exchange rate consistent with sustainable current 
accounts. Our results show that China's RER was undervalued between 2002 
and 2005 in effective terms and even more against the USD. However, we 
also show that a revaluation of the renminbi would only have a small 
effect on the US external deficit.


#8: Just How Undervalued is the Chinese Renminbi?
http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1467-9701.2005.00688.x/abstract
(economy)
(very cited)

Given that the value of China's currency has been a hot topic recently, 
this paper explores the equilibrium levels of China's real and nominal 
exchange rates. Employing a Johansen cointegration framework, we focus 
on the behavioural equilibrium exchange rate (BEER) and permanent 
equilibrium exchange rate (PEER) models. Our results suggest that, while 
the renminbi is somewhat undervalued against the dollar, the 
misalignment is not nearly as exaggerated as many popular claims.


#9: Debating China's Exchange Rate Policy
http://books.google.ch/books?id=Ka7rmHFt9eIC&dq=renminbi+diplomacy&lr=&source=gbs_navlinks_s
(politics and economics)
(Almost the whole book is on google books)

Assessing China's exchange rate policy, this work explains how to make 
capital flows the ally--not the enemy--of exchange rate policy. It 
examines which institutional arrangements and policy guidelines reap the 
greatest benefits from management of China's large foreign exchange 
reserves.


#10: The United States and the PRC: Macroeconomic Imbalances and 
Economic Diplomacy
http://aei.org/files/2011/06/28/ADBI-GMU-Levy-8-June-2011.pdf
(diplomacy)

The People’s Republic of China (PRC)’s current account surplus, its 
growing foreign exchange reserves, and its shifting policies on exchange 
rate adjustment have become a central preoccupation of United States 
(US) trade policy. The paper considers the evolving political economy of 
the US policy stance and of the PRC’s response; it assesses the 
opportunity costs of an approach that has sometimes focused on the 
exchange rate to the exclusion of other issues; and it explores the 
ramifications for economic governance in the short- and medium-run.


#11: Economic Diplomacy in a Changing World
http://www.ingentaconnect.com/content/mnp/hjd/2011/00000006/F0020001/art00009
(economic diplomacy)

This article stresses the importance of economic diplomacy in 
international policy-making. It elaborates on the global challenges that 
we face in the coming years. Solving these challenges has become 
complicated as a result of the rebalancing act from the West towards the 
East. The challenges touched upon here are issues such as the aftermath 
of the 2008-2009 global financial crisis, guarding the multilateral 
system, the decreasing power of the Netherlands, and securing food and 
raw materials. Solutions to these challenges can be found in increasing 
our understanding of our new partners and using economic diplomacy more 
frequently in an intelligent way.


#12: The Chinese Economy: Progress and Challenges
http://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/speech/Bernanke20061215a.htm
(diplomacy)
(primary source)

Speech by the us Federal Reserve Bank chairman Ben S. Bernanke in China, 
2006


#13: ‘Flowers and criticism’: The political economy of the renminbi 
debate
http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/09692290600625488
(political economy)

Since 2003 China has faced increasing pressure, especially from the US 
and Japan, to revalue the renminbi. In July 2005 China responded by 
announcing a small revaluation and a switch from a dollar peg to a 
tightly managed float against a currency basket. The mainstream economic 
debate, which we briefly review, has focused on whether, and to what 
extent, the renminbi is undervalued. From a political economy 
perspective, however, the more interesting question is why China has 
been so reluctant to significantly revalue the renminbi especially since 
it was keen to prove itself a ‘responsible member of the international 
community’ by not devaluing in the wake of the Asian financial crisis in 
1997–1998. We argue that this can be explained by three factors. These 
are, firstly, the diminished ability of China's policy-makers to use the 
export tax rebate policy to mitigate the effects of a revaluation. 
Secondly, there are differences in the regional context between the two 
time periods. Thirdly, in the international game of ‘problem 
assignment’, China refuses to accept that the US trade deficit is its 
‘problem’.



